no matter how far flagship smartphones
advance with their incredible specs and
breathtaking performance there will
always be a demand for the middleman the
flagship of yesterday the mid-range
smartphone hey guys Phil vino with
Android authority and this is the review
of the oppo r1x utilising the head
chef's mentality of creating something
truly great with only a few basic
ingredients Apple has kept with a
familiar formula just like in their
previous r1 they start with a thin
aluminum chassis cnc machined with the
now very popular diamond cutting
techniques that help deliver the mirror
smooth champers which surround the
volume rocker and SIM card slot on the
right power on the left just peel off
the edge on top for the 3.5 millimeter
headphone jack and finally frame the
microUSB port machine drilled speaker
and microphone holes and to keep
aesthetics in full focus Oppo is kept
the glass sandwich design but this time
with a facets reflection pattern in the
back meaning it shines and shows off no
matter what angle you hold it and
despite being only 6.8 millimeters thick
it has no camera bumps so the package
remains sleek and uniform throughout
once illuminated and in use the screen
which at 5 inches and only 1280 by 720
is still clear and detailed enough that
I don't feel cheated or that there isn't
a valuable visual experience to be had
and that I think has a lot to do with
color OS as with any Android UI skin
there will always be legitimate
skepticism but here it's pretty much a
breeze and layered over 4.4.4 kitkat
animations are snappy and it's never
shown me the slightest hint of a hiccup
or lag and all that accomplished through
a Snapdragon 615 octa-core and 2 gigs of
ram but color OS itself has its own tool
belt of features possibly making it a
compelling UI option including themes to
make a more stock Android look or host
of others in the theme store to get as
personal as you'd like and then there's
the exclusive space and live weather
widgets live weather gives you weather
themed animations for your wallpaper and
exclusive spaces a pose take on widgets
for your camera and music player not
standout features but fun fresh takes on
the widget side of things so color OS on
the r1x works pretty well overall and
isn't an uncomfortable experience by any
me
but if you want to get as far from it as
possible get back to the Google roots
it's not that difficult at all the
settings menu is well laid out through
three categories of general sound and
display and under general and default
application you can switch to the Google
now launcher and change hangouts to the
default messaging app giving that more
traditional stock Android experience but
even so you'll be using ah Poe's
infamous or famous capacitive keys for
back home and multitasking but probably
the feature most important to those
looking at a mid-range smartphone is
battery and 24 20 milliamp hours it fits
right in that range of flagships with
similar sizes and lasts at least a full
day with moderate to heavy use in the
few days of testing I found that if I
lean more towards the power use side I
just barely finished the day with the
battery lasting until the end but still
making it with a good mix of use ranging
from Google Maps periodically to texting
email web browsing and YouTube video
watching I got just under three hours of
screen on time and considering the
amount of time dedicated to media I'm
pretty happy with it but sadly you won't
have a pose incredibly fast VUCA
charging here which is a letdown for me
it's one of my favorite features for any
Apple product that supports it - look -
ah pose more expensive options like the
r5 and n3 for the awesome vogue fast
charging uh Namid to your smartphone
like this you might feel you'd be
completely cheated out of any reasonable
camera experience and while you're
definitely missing out on 4k video
capabilities with only 1080p max you're
still getting a solid 13 megapixel
shooter with at least passable outdoor
capabilities it produces subdued colors
but the images have ample detail indoors
it suffers more even with its f 2.0
aperture it works hard to bring
brightness to the image with ISO
increases but then it makes for a grainy
and fairly unattractive image all of
these Auto settings are also controlled
by what Oppo calls pure image 2.0 plus
to auto change settings for an optimal
image and there's manual controls too if
you feel that you can tweak a better
image out of the sensor with access to
white balance ISO exposure and even
manual focus I'm not sure that this is
the camera phone you're going to want to
pick up to set up important manual shots
but it's nice to see all the controls
included for those that want it oh and
there's a beauty mode - which is nothing
more than a glorified Instagram filter
you can apply before taking this shot
but that's only the beginning of the
camera features Oppo offers here you can
install a host of others from gift
creator to raw image and after focus for
an only ok camera you get just about
every software feature you could
possibly want the front face irat 5
megapixels certainly packs enough
resolution but even so gives basic image
quality outdoors and doesn't look so hot
indoors again images come out noisier
and post-processing and the software
crushes detail in the image to
compensate call quality is decent as
with most phones these days it's never a
real issue for concern and whether using
the bottom facing speakers for
speakerphone or media it's loud enough
but definitely doesn't deliver a rich
sound again serviceable is the operative
word for every performance category in a
pose offering so with an estimated price
tag of just over four hundred and fifty
dollars the art 1x certainly isn't a
budget phone but it won't break your
wallet either but from a performance
standpoint it really doesn't stand out
especially when considering the
competition it's an average phone that
does all of the tasks we expect from a
smart phone well and while the screen is
low on the resolution scale for sure it
produces beautiful colors and coming
from using a lot of qHD smart phones
with brilliant displays lately I still
didn't grow sick or tired of the r-1 X's
5-inch pixel canvas that being said I
actually would recommend this phone not
to us users of course as you won't get
the LTE bands but certainly globally but
more specifically to those that value
design and functionality first and
foremost to those of you that want a low
horsepower fully reliable device that
simply looks feels and is built like a
flagship well guys thank you for
watching if you enjoyed this video or
found it helpful at all please do give a
thumbs up and also be sure to subscribe
to android authority for future coverage
of all android devices and also check
out the website too for even more
in-depth coverage as we are your source
for all things Android